---
title: Uses
date: 2025-09-06
tags:
  - volumen
description: A few things worth noting.
---

When I seek guidance, I turn to books. Classical philosophy and strategy teach leadership and discipline, especially during workplace challenges [@musashiBookFiveRings2005; @tzuArtWar2005; @tzuTaoTeChing1989; @machiavelliPrince1998]. The Stoics highlight life’s fragility [@senecaShortnessLifeOther1997; @aureliusMeditationsNewTranslation2003]. Modern thought provides clarity in varied ways: mindfulness practices [@suzukiZenMindBeginner2020], philosophical ideas [@wattsMyOwnWay2007; @frankfurtBullshit2005], science revealing hidden patterns [@rovelliThereArePlaces2022; @penroseRoadRealityComplete2004], probability and risk as subtle forces [@talebFooledRandomnessHidden2005], and problem-solving as daily practice [@polyaHowSolveIt2014]. The human condition, shown in literature, remains compelling [@murakamiNovelistVocation2022; @greeneLawsHumanNature2019; @rutherfurdNewYorkNovel2010].

## Hardware

I prefer durable, straightforward hardware. For writing, I use Leuchtturm1917 and MD notebooks, mechanical pencils, simple fountain pens, and sticky notes. My daily devices include an iPad Air, a Mac Studio with a monitor, an iPhone, and two SSDs, supported by older Apple peripherals. For leisure, I use Apple TV, Sony headphones, and Sonos speakers. For music, I play older Fender and Gibson guitars, a tube amplifier, and a digital effects unit.

## Software

I like to keep my tools simple. At home, I use macOS's built-in apps and Homebrew to manage software. Bash and Python handle automation. For writing and research, I move through Obsidian, Pandoc, Positron, Quarto, and Zotero. KeePassXC and NetNewsWire keep things secure and connected, while Spotify and MuseScore take care of the music. By contrast, work feels more like a uniform: the standard Microsoft suite, with a little freedom in Notepad++ for notes and Firefox for the Internet.

Also see [2025-09-02-durability](2025-09-02-durability.md)

### References